Overview
In this cybersecurity lab, I learned how attackers and security testers use directory enumeration to discover hidden files and web pages on a website.
The main objective of this lab was to find a hidden login page and retrieve the username and password using enumeration techniques.
I performed this lab in a controlled and ethical environment for educational purposes only.
Tools Used
Kali Linux
Gobuster
SecLists Wordlists
Linux Terminal
Step-by-Step Process
Step 1 – Understanding the Target
First, I was given a target website/IP address for the lab.
The website looked normal from the frontend, but the goal was to discover hidden directories and files that were not publicly visible.
Example:
http://target-website.com
Step 2 – Starting Directory Enumeration
I used Gobuster to brute-force directories on the target website.
Command used:
gobuster dir -u http://target-website.com -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/common.txt
What this command does:
dir → performs directory enumeration
-u → specifies the target URL
-w → specifies the wordlist to use
Gobuster started sending requests and checking for hidden pages.
Step 3 – Analyzing the Results
After running the scan, Gobuster returned multiple directories with different HTTP status codes.
Example:
/admin
/login
/uploads
/secret
I carefully checked the interesting directories one by one in the browser.
Step 4 – Finding the Hidden Login Page
One of the discovered directories contained a hidden login panel.
Example:
http://target-website.com/admin
This page was not accessible from the main website navigation, which means enumeration was necessary to discover it.
Step 5 – Looking for Credentials
Inside the discovered directories, I searched for files containing useful information such as:
configuration files
backup files
notes
hidden text files
Eventually, I found information that revealed the login credentials.
Example:
Username: admin
Password: ********
Step 6 – Accessing the Admin Panel
Using the discovered credentials, I successfully logged into the admin dashboard and completed the lab objective.
What I Learned
Through this lab, I learned:
How directory enumeration works
How hidden web resources can expose sensitive information
Basic reconnaissance techniques used in penetration testing
Practical usage of Gobuster in real-world scenarios
Importance of securing hidden files and directories
Key Takeaways
Even hidden directories can be discovered if proper security measures are not implemented.
Enumeration is an important phase in penetration testing.
Sensitive files should never be publicly accessible on a web server.
Disclaimer
This project was completed in a legal and controlled lab environment for educational and ethical cybersecurity learning purposes only.
